citHeader("To cite package 'simecol' in publications use:")

citEntry(entry="Article",
  author = "Susanne Rolinski and Heidemarie Horn and Thomas Petzoldt
    and Lothar Paul",
  title = "Identifying cardinal dates in phytoplankton time series to
    enable the analysis of long-term trends",
  journal = "Oecologia",
  year = "2007",
  volume = "153",
  pages = "997 -- 1008",
  number = "4",
  abstract = "Phenology and seasonal succession in aquatic ecosystems
    are strongly dependent on physical factors. In order to promote
    investigations into this coupling, methods of characterising
    annual time series of phytoplankton were derived and applied to a
    31-year data set from Saidenbach Reservoir (Saxony,
    Germany). Field data are often scarce and irregularly sampled,
    particularly in the transition period from winter to spring, so
    reliable methods of determining cardinal dates in the time series
    are necessary. The proposed methods were used to determine the
    beginning, maximum and end of the spring mass development of
    phytoplankton by estimating the inflexion points (A), fitting a
    Weibull-type function (B) and fitting linear segments to the
    logarithmic values (C). For the data set from Saidenbach
    Reservoir, all three methods proved to be relevant to the analysis
    of longterm trends.  Differences between the maxima determined by
    the different methods seemed small, but there were deviations when
    the maximum was related to physical factors such as ice-out. The
    Weibull-type fit gave the most reliable and comprehensible results
    and is recommended for trend analyses. For all methods, long-term
    analysis of the duration of the spring mass development and the
    duration of the spring full circulation revealed a period of
    consistently low values (1975-1990) followed by a period of higher
    values (1990-2005). These periods were also identified for the
    date of ice-out, although in this case there was a period of high
    values followed by a period of low values. A sensitivity analysis
    that compared results from subsampled time series with increasing
    time intervals indicated that a minimum of one sample every three
    weeks is needed to obtain reliable results.",
  doi = "doi:10.1007/s00442-007-0783-2",
  keywords = "Spring mass development, Climate change, Saidenbach
    Reservoir, Limnology, Physical -biological coupling, Peak
    detection",
  textVersion = paste("Rolinski, S., Horn, H., Petzoldt, T., & Paul,
     L. (2007): Identification of cardinal dates in phytoplankton time
     series to enable the analysis of long-term trends. Oecologia
     \textbf{153}, 997 - 1008.")
)
